---
game_version: dst
category: Uncategorized
source_url: https://dontstarve.fandom.com/wiki/Guides/Character_guides-Wendy
---

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | This article may contain **instructional** language and subjective recommendations. Readers should read the content carefully, and follow accordingly. |

 https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/dont-starve-game/images/3/3f/Wendy DST.png/revision/latest?cb=20171005134950 



 

**“**Abigail? Come back! I'm not done playing with you.**”**

–[Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy")

This is a guide for playing as [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy"), the Bereaved. It will give a general summary of her strengths and weaknesses, and will also explain some of the most common and effective ways to utilize her twin sister, [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail").

## Contents

* [1 Character Summary](#Character_Summary)
  + [1.1 In addition to Don't Starve Together](#In_addition_to_Don't_Starve_Together)
* [2 Abigail](#Abigail)
  + [2.1 Don't Starve Together](#Don't_Starve_Together)
    - [2.1.1 Summoning](#Summoning)
    - [2.1.2 Abigail's Perks](#Abigail's_Perks)
* [3 Combat with Abigail](#Combat_with_Abigail)
  + [3.1 Recommended Targets](#Recommended_Targets)
  + [3.2 Not Recommended](#Not_Recommended)
* [4 Notes](#Notes)
* [5 Surviving](#Surviving)

## Wendy Portrait Character Summary[]

Preferring to employ studied, elaborate tactics and strategy in combat, Wendy is a unique [character](/wiki/Characters "Characters") whose gameplay often involves fighting large-scale battles into the darkest hours of the night.

One of her more easily overlooked strengths is a lower and slower [sanity](/wiki/Sanity "Sanity") drain debuff from [monsters](/wiki/Monster "Monster") and the slow drain of dusk and night. Night time can wear her sanity down eventually, but it will take much longer than with other [characters](/wiki/Characters "Characters"). This gives Wendy much more freedom and choice to do as she pleases when the night comes, or when approaching [insanity-inducing](/wiki/Sanity "Sanity") creatures, such as [Spiders](/wiki/Spiders "Spiders") or [Ghosts](/wiki/Ghost "Ghost").

The first hurdle one will have to face as Wendy is that she simply doesn't have the strength to easily kill the same enemies that some other character could. Her physical strength is equal to [Wes](/wiki/Wes "Wes")'s, leaving her more vulnerable to some threats that might have been overlooked with other characters, such as [Wilson](/wiki/Wilson "Wilson"), or even better, [Wolfgang](/wiki/Wolfgang "Wolfgang"). Kiting is decisively more crucial when playing as her. It becomes increasingly important to get a feel for the timing of your enemies' attacks, as well as to avoid getting overwhelmed - something that is easier to fall victim to without [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") around to help.

Abigail is Wendy's deceased sister, and main ability, she is called back into ghost form through her [Flower](/wiki/Abigail%27s_Flower "Abigail's Flower"). Summoning Abigail lets you trade a hefty 50 Sanity for all of the destructive powers of an angry spirit, but always remember: Abigail is *not* invincible and that she can die. She has a total of 600 Health and once summoned, Abigail will follow Wendy around, but will keep her distance so that she can't be completely next to Wendy until either Abigail attacks, or until Wendy does the same to her (except in Don't Starve Together icon, whereas Wendy can stand close to her sister to prevent [Charlie](/wiki/Charlie "Charlie") from attacking). Abigail will harmlessly float near Wendy most of the time, but she will attempt to attack any enemy that Wendy attacks, or any enemy that attacks either Wendy or Abigail herself. It must be noted that she can attack hostile creatures by herself too, such as [Spiders](/wiki/Spiders "Spiders"), and passive creatures that wander around, such as [Moleworms](/wiki/Moleworm "Moleworm") or [Butterflies](/wiki/Butterfly "Butterfly"); and this can happen if they get too close to her. Abigail turns red when she is causing damage or when damaged, and while attacking she utilizes a short range area-of-effect (AoE) that can increase in power as darkness fall.

### Don't Starve Together icon In addition to [Don't Starve Together](/wiki/Don%27t_Starve_Together "Don't Starve Together")[]

In *Don't Starve Together*, both Abigail and Wendy have received some important changes.

For example, Abigail deals even more damage during in the daylight and when darkness are falling, respectively dealing 15 Health and 25 Health, increasing her effectiveness. In addition, she is able to defend herself more effectively thanks to her shield, lasting a brief duration, which can be empowered. Wendy is able to manage her sanity better than ever, and doesn't lose any when you are in proximity of ghosts, becoming neutral to you.

As Wendy you can prepare your [Ghostly Elixirs](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir "Ghostly Elixir"), and administer them to your dead sister to trigger powerful effects. With these, you become able to achieve results in fights that otherwise would have been impossible. She must first gather some [Mourning Glories](/wiki/Mourning_Glory "Mourning Glory") Mourning Glory by helping the spirits of the dead juveniles, the [Pipspooks](/wiki/Pipspook "Pipspook"), by finding their lost toys.

The elixirs Wendy can craft are the following:

* The **Revenant Restorative** Revenant Restorative, a useful elixir which can be used to heal Abigail's ectoplasmic wounds to sustain her in harsh environments, such as the [Ruins](/wiki/Ruins "Ruins");
* The **Spectral Cure-All** Spectral Cure-All, an even more powerful healing item to let your sister heal during long fights that require a heavier amount of dark magic;
* The **Unyielding Draught** Unyielding Draught, useful to better shield Abigail when the enemies aren't hampered by your sister's burn;
* The **Distilled Vengeance** Distilled Vengeance, to punish enemies who dare to attack your filial specter's shields;
* The **Nightshade Nostrum** Nightshade Nostrum, to make feel enemies the night while the daylight shines upon them, empowering Abigail's attacks to always deal 40 Health;
* and finally, the **Vigor Mortis** Vigor Mortis, and let Abigail feel more swift than ever, increasing her movement speed.

Learning how best to use Abigail's strengths, and how to manage her weaknesses, is what will set the stronger Wendy players apart from the rest, making a big difference if one knows how to use her powers correctly. Abigail isn't perfect, but she can easily carry you through some of the most common threats in the game, letting you rest easy where you could have struggled alone.

## Abigail's Flower DST Abigail[]

**“**Abigail! Are you ready to play?**”**

–an unusual joyful [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy").

Abigail is summoned using her [Flower.](/wiki/Abigail%27s_Flower "Abigail's Flower") When the flower is fully open Abigail's Flower DST, killing anything (even yourself!) while the flower is on the ground will summon her, causing you to suffer a 50 Sanity penalty as a result. However, this does not apply to murdering a captured [animal](/wiki/Animals "Animals") within your inventory (in Don't Starve Together icon, the method is different as described later).

When Abigail attacks, she utilizes a short range area-of-effect (AoE) attack that will deal damage to any enemy in a small radius around her. This damage starts off weak in the daylight, dealing 10 Health, while gradually becoming stronger as night falls; eventually ramping up to four times (40 Health at night, 20 Health during dusk) as much damage during night as she does during day.

Abigail's Flower goes through three distinct stages; the first will show it curled up with a white hue Abigail's Flower 1 DST, the second will show it starting to open with a faded pink color Abigail's Flower 2 DST, and the third will show it fully open and glowing a red-pink Abigail's Flower DST, as well as it levitating when left on the ground, and making a ghostly sound if approached, but this only occurs in Don't Starve Together icon.

Be warned: 50 Sanity is a high price to pay for summoning [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail"). While usually worth it, unprepared players can find such a sanity drop hard to recover from. Try to obtain some sanity-restoring food (such as a [Cooked Green Cap](/wiki/Green_Cap "Green Cap")) or clothing (for istance, a [Top Hat](/wiki/Top_Hat "Top Hat"), since it's easy to come by while playing as [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy")) in order to replace the cost. It is also recommended that the player should not try to summon Abigail when their sanity is already low to begin with, since Abigail can't help Wendy fight the [Shadow Creatures](/wiki/Shadow_Creature "Shadow Creature").

The easiest way to ensure that you can summon Abigail is to have a nearby [Flower](/wiki/Flower "Flower") and wait for a [Butterfly](/wiki/Butterfly "Butterfly") to spawn. Even Wendy, with her tiny fists, can kill these flying carbs in one hit. During [Winter](/wiki/Winter "Winter"), stored [Rabbits](/wiki/Rabbit "Rabbit") or [Birds](/wiki/Birds "Birds") can be used instead; though they must first be placed upon the ground before sacrificing them in order to summon her.

### Don't Starve Together icon Don't Starve Together[]

In *Don't Starve Together*, each blooming state of the [Flower](/wiki/Flower "Flower") doesn't determine the charging rate of the item, but rather, it indicates [Abigail's power level](/wiki/Abigail#Don't_Starve_Together "Abigail") Abigail Badge, which can cap up to level 3. Each state represents her level, the highest being the one most saturated in red. Each one of it will grow your sister's health from the weak 150 Health, level 2 empowering her by 300 Health, and finally up to 600 Health.

https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/dont-starve-game/images/8/86/Abigail Loading Screen.png/revision/latest?cb=20210131081057

Note that the Flower will stay unbloomed Abigail's Flower 0 DST if you are far from it, left on the ground, or if other players other than you (except other [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy")s) carry it in their inventory. Since other players apart from fellow Wendys can't grasp your ghostly and eerie comprehension towards the world of spectral creatures, they can't summon [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") in any way.

#### Summoning[]

In *Don't Starve Together*, summoning [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") has become an easier task, since the player is simply required to right click on the [Abigail's Flower](/wiki/Abigail%27s_Flower "Abigail's Flower") and wait for Wendy to summon her. Upon calling for her dead sister, you gain 15 Sanity, making the summoning an advantage, all across the board. You should be aware of the fact that Wendy can lose 15 Sanity if you dismiss her, making the gain of [sanity](/wiki/Sanity "Sanity") completely worthless; even more if destroyed by any other means, such as from an enemy or environmental damage, losing 30 Sanity and resetting her power Abigail Badge back to level 1.

#### Abigail's Perks[]

Abigail also has two states, which can be changed by Wendy at will. One, the **Sooth** state, is what is seen in *Don't Starve,* where she sticks by Wendy and will *never* engage if not told to do so (except for a few entities, like [Moleworms](/wiki/Moleworm "Moleworm")). In her other state, **Rile Up**, she targets any hostile or neutral mobs without being told to.

* **Rile Up** can be a handy tool in various situations. Since Abby doesn't need to be told what to do, she can be used as a distraction from Wendy. For example, [Cave Spider](/wiki/Cave_Spider "Cave Spider") nests can't be taken out with attacking and have to be mined down. So, to prevent being caught in a stunlock loop from Spiders and not being able to get anything done, Wendy can Rile Up Abby and have her deal the first hit. The Cave Spiders and Spitters will go after her and completely ignore Wendy, making her free to mine away at the nest.

Remember to **Sooth** her after the combat, as she can cause a lot of unwanted trouble with other creatures (for instance, [Bunnymen](/wiki/Bunnyman "Bunnyman") or [Pigs](/wiki/Pig "Pig")).

 File:Wendy doesn%27t give a damn about Spiders 

Wendy doesn't give a damn about Spiders

A video about [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail")'s effectiveness against swarms.

 

When hitting a foe, Abigail renders them vulnerable and the damage they take is increased by 10%, and you are going to deal an extra 40% against them, making [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy") a character more fit for fighting rather than anything. If one does the maths, the total damage dealt to enemies is increased by 115%, rendering Abigail useful to deal important chip damage in (for example) [boss](/wiki/Boss "Boss") fights, whereas she couldn't have done anything but disappear in a matter of seconds. If you are able kite correctly, you can actually set the aggro of the enemies onto you when they try to hit (faling, hopefully), and thus, prolonging her presence in the world of the living.

Another important tip: if you are unsummoning [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") to prevent the loss of her perks while in combat, you should do it only when you get a little bit of distance from the foe(s), since the unsummoning animation would let the enemy hit Wendy, losing important health points. This also applies to (and especially) when you are summoning her, which takes even more time.

## Football Helmet Combat with Abigail[]

Being the bane of the creatures that swarm their attackers, or those who dare to strike during [night](/wiki/Day-Night_Cycle "Day-Night Cycle"), Abigail is able to take down a large amount of monsters which otherwise would be a challenge to defeat on your own.

As she is more vulnerable by herself, one of the most valuable assets Wendy possesses is the ability to throw her sister at creatures in order to kill them for her. Often you can let her take the brunt of enemy attacks for you, while you rush in after the aggro has been triggered to get your own attacks in (or just to collect the loot). Abigail regenerates health gradually over time in the same way that [Chester](/wiki/Chester "Chester") does (which effect can be amplified with Revenant Restorative and Spectral Cure-AllDon't Starve Together icon), and and can take quite the beating compared to Wendy, though it isn't hard for Abigail to be bested by certain kinds of enemies.

Abigail will start to attack things when you click to attack them, making a viable strategy to attack-click, quickly move to break the path finding, and then let whatever you just clicked at feel the burn of her ectoplasm. Note that in Don't Starve Together icon you are required to fake an attack on an entity in order to set Abigail on the hunt, and clicking doesn't work at all until the intent of hurting is shown.

Unlike the player (usually), [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") can be brought back several times in the same world. Don't be afraid to throw her to the [Hounds](/wiki/Hound "Hound") or to use her as a scapegoat in dire situations; your life is far more important than hers.

Some of the situations in which Abigail shines are listed as follows.

### Recommended Targets[]

* **[Spiders](/wiki/Spiders "Spiders")** will melt beneath Abigail by the dozen due to the way they attempt to swarm their prey, making assaults versus dozens of Spiders simultaneously a relatively simple endeavor. Send forth Abigail to aggro the nest, plus whatever Spiders are in the area. Farming Spiders with Abigail can be tricky to manage properly, so it's best to keep an eye on her and try to keep an opening for yourself in case she goes down and the swarm targets you instead. Don't be afraid to bail if you think things have gotten out of hand; worst-case scenario, you'll just have to make a quick dash through the nest creep to grab her Flower again, if the zone is safe enough (this doesn't apply to Don't Starve Together icon).
* **[Bees](/wiki/Bees "Bees")** is another easy target for Abigail. Most of the time an entire swarm can be stunlocked all at once as she sits on their hive and kills every single one Bee. Abigail is even able to manage easily hundreds of them without any particular problem.
* [**Beefalos**](/wiki/Beefalo "Beefalo") are a mixed bag as well, due to their natural tankiness, heavy (yet slow) attacks, and their tendency to rush in from large distances when their comrades are attacked. While not really the best target for Abigail, in the darkest hours of night is the best time to take on a herd due to her higher attack damage, but make sure you back Abigail up or she might not have the power needed to melt through an entire herd. Be prepared to sprint if she falls, but if the group is small enough you should be able to mop up what's left, even if Abigail didn't have it in her to finish the job. In [*Don't Starve Together*](/wiki/Don%27t_Starve_Together "Don't Starve Together"), you are recommended to use a [Distilled Vengeance](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Distilled_Vengeance "Ghostly Elixir") Distilled Vengeance to get a little bit more damage output and shield Abigail to prevent her to die almost instantly. If you lack the necessary materials, use a [Unyielding Draught](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Undyielding_Draught "Ghostly Elixir") Unyielding Draught instead, which can be as useful as the latter, even though this can be dangerous in larger Beefalo herds.
* **[Koalefant](/wiki/Koalefant "Koalefant")** hunting can also be made easier with Abigail's help. Once tracked, place the Koalefant into a wide area. Next, issue an attack order on the Koalefant, and Abigail will try to attack it. If everything goes well, she's going to get the animal's aggro and let you kill it with ease, while you help Abigail her attack. In Don't Starve Together icon, this method is impossible to apply and you are required to resort to alternative methods.
* **[Hound](/wiki/Hound "Hound")** waves, particularly early on, are easily handled by Abigail. Versus larger groups she can be overpowered, but the first several weeks can be spent in relative safety as you can largely ignore the handful of Hounds that came for you, picking up bits and pieces of them when the deed is done. Beware of fires from [Red Hounds](/wiki/Hound#Red_Hound "Hound") later on: the burn damage can harm Abigail if she spends too much time sitting inside of it. In *[Don't Starve Together](/wiki/Don%27t_Starve_Together "Don't Starve Together")*, you are recommended to use shielding elixirs (Unyielding Draught, Distilled Vengeance) to [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail"), as when larger groups are going to attack you, your spiritual sister helper is going to have serious issues surviving the waves, making survival particularly hard for Wendy when it comes to [Hounds](/wiki/Hound "Hound") in later seasons.
* **[Pengulls](/wiki/Pengulls "Pengulls")** are an easy target for Abigail, as she's able to finish the job faster than most characters in the game. Just set aggro on one of the Pengulls, and let her kill them (more preferably during [night](/wiki/Day-Night_Cycle "Day-Night Cycle")). In this manner, Wendy is able to gather an easy source of [Jet Feathers](/wiki/Feather "Feather"), [Morsels](/wiki/Morsel "Morsel") and [Drumsticks](/wiki/Drumstick "Drumstick").
* **[Tallbirds](/wiki/Tallbirds "Tallbirds")** are a mixed bag, as Tallbirds generally target the player. Even though the Tallbird is fast enough to reach the player, its attack won't connect (given the player does not stop running). Abigail will then catch up to the Tallbird and attack it, which will normally result in a victory. It may take time for Abigail to kill the Tallbird, especially if the fight takes place during the day. However, if the Tallbird targets Abigail, Abigail's chances of death skyrocket. During the fight, you are recommended to help her, as in Don't Starve Together icon Abigail is going to empower your attacks, making quick job of the [Tallbird](/wiki/Tallbird "Tallbird"). If fighting consecutive nests, it's better to craft a [Revenant Restorative](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Revenant_Restorative "Ghostly Elixir") Revenant Restorative for more sustain during the campaign, or a [Spectral Cure-All](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Spectral_Cure-All "Ghostly Elixir") Spectral Cure-All if you think you're swift enough for a slaughter of birds. If you find yourself before a [Tallfort](/wiki/Set_Piece#Tallfort "Set Piece"), better craft a [Distilled Vengeance](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Distilled_Vengeance "Ghostly Elixir") Distilled Vengeance for total mayhem, and helping your sister during the assault (as always, during night, preferably).
* **[Spider Queens](/wiki/Spider_Queen "Spider Queen")** are an easy foe for [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") and if you are helping, you can easily finish a series of arachnide regimes. In engagement you must be quick and direct, and most importantly, equip armor and a decent weapon (such as a [Cutlass Supreme](/wiki/Cutlass_Supreme "Cutlass Supreme") Cutlass Supreme in Shipwrecked icon, or a [Ham Bat](/wiki/Ham_Bat "Ham Bat") Ham Bat). Spider Queen doesn't have as much health as other bosses, so if you and your sister will help eachother during the fight while tanking and hitting the main target, you are going to kill her in a matter of seconds, especially when Abigail can easily deal with the [Spiders](/wiki/Spiders "Spiders") wandering and protecting their queen.

### Not Recommended[]

There are also many enemies that Abigail will struggle to fight against. These foes are often plentiful on the map and can be extremely dangerous to any Wendy player. Care must be taken when attempting to pass through the areas where these mobs reside when Abigail is in tow.

* **[Tentacles](/wiki/Tentacles "Tentacles")** will wreck Abigail. Striking them resets their attack cooldown, and she will do so consistently with no consideration for her own safety, making things that much harder for herself. She can sometimes take a single tentacle, but strolls through the swamp will sometimes trigger the aggro of many tentacles in a row, and each time she will break off from you and attack the thing that just took a potshot at you. The end result will leave you vulnerable for several days or just straight up leave you injured, leaving you open for the next Hound attack as a result. If you must go through a [swamp](/wiki/Marsh "Marsh") with [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail"), in Don't Starve Together icon it's better to Soothe Abby, in order to keep her calm during the travel. It must be noted, though, that an experienced Wendy player can easily eliminate several Tentacles if it manages to keep Abigail healed (with [Honey Poultices](/wiki/Honey_Poultice "Honey Poultice") or [Healing Salves](/wiki/Healing_Salve "Healing Salve")) and is quick during the splatter, making an easy source of [Tentacle Spikes](/wiki/Tentacle "Tentacle").
* **[Frogs](/wiki/Frogs "Frogs")** in small numbers won't pose much of a threat to Abigail. But an entire swarm, or even a small group fought during the day, will probably be too much for her to handle. Frogs can't be stunned when hit, and Abigail's tendency to sit right on top of her prey will most likely be her downfall as the frogs constantly attack her until one side perishes. One or two is fine, but it's probably better to avoid them completely, even if using [shielding elixirs](/wiki/Ghostly_Elixir#Unyielding_Draught "Ghostly Elixir").
* **[Treeguards](/wiki/Treeguards "Treeguards")** could, arguably, be a useful enemy to throw Abigail at. She will fail miserably versus the creature one on one - but when she dies the Treeguard won't remember it was mad at you until you strike it or start to chop another tree down. This makes it possible to run away and equip yourself properly to duel the beast on your own terms without worrying about a lumbering monstrosity looming on the horizon. Be prepared to do a lot of kiting when you do engage it, however; it will take a while to kill it by yourself. In Don't Starve Together icon, keeping [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail") alive while kiting correctly can be an extremely efficient way to deal damage, although this is not a recommended method when multiple [Treeguards](/wiki/Treeguard "Treeguard") are around.
* **[Pigs](/wiki/Pigs "Pigs")** are simple one on one or two, but their kiting AI will give Abigail nothing but trouble. If you intend to fight a pig, Abigail will complement you very nicely if you both were point blank to it, but if it slips out of range it could give you both a bit of a run-around. Anything higher than two pigs will almost surely be the doom of Abigail, or at least make your day significantly more difficult and less enjoyable.
* **[Merms](/wiki/Merms "Merms")** are difficult for the same reason as the Pigs above, accentuated by the fact you will almost always be swarmed immediately if you were too close to the [Rundown House](/wiki/Mermhouse "Mermhouse"). They're also faster than the Pigs, making it even harder for you and Abigail to do any damage. Generally speaking, swamps and Abigail do not mix.
* **[Boss enemies](/wiki/Boss "Boss")** in general will easily do Abigail in. The supplementary damage is always useful, especially in Don't Starve Together icon, but in that case you're probably going to wind up taking most of the heat, and finishing the job against bosses is always going to be [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy")'s task.

## Papyrus Notes[]

Here are some notes about [Wendy](/wiki/Wendy "Wendy") and [Abigail](/wiki/Abigail "Abigail"). We recommend you to read some of these to expand your knowledge about Wendy's power and how to exploit it.

* She will pass through walls when trying to avoid you, but her path finding forces her to seek openings like normal creatures.
* Her AI does not consider her health and will attempt to sit directly on top of enemies, regardless of how much damage she takes.
* https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/dont-starve-game/images/d/de/Abigail.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20130709112143 https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/dont-starve-game/images/d/de/Abigail.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20130709112143 

  Abigail's look when she is at low health.

   At low Health (~20%), Abigail's normal appearance will change to indicate her weakened state. Her eyes will turn into a more "worried" look.
* Occasionally she will sit just out of range of her AoE attack if her AI hasn't registered it because it's too small a distance; it might be necessary to nudge her closer to something, or re-issue the attack order.
* She is slower than Wendy, and can be left behind on long walks down paths or roads. If Wendy moves far enough away from her, Abigail will teleport to just off of the screen, and then keep following normally, just like [Chester](/wiki/Chester "Chester") does.
* If you lose her [Flower](/wiki/Abigail%27s_Flower "Abigail's Flower"), it will show up on the map.
  + You can also recraft another one if you have enough materials.
* Any aggro against you will trip Abigail's aggro, possibly drawing her into unfavourable fights. Be aware of how close you are getting to enemies!
* After a certain amount of time, Abigail will get distracted and neglect whatever she was attacking unless hit again. You might have to remind her to keep doing her thing if you sent her at a structure via more attack clicks (holding the button down doesn't help).
* Abigail *will not* assist you with [hostile hallucinations](/wiki/Shadow_Creature "Shadow Creature"). If you go [insane](/wiki/Sanity "Sanity"), you're on your own.
* Abigail always deals the most amount of damage when you are in the [Caves](/wiki/Caves "Caves").

## Spear Surviving[]

Above everything else, it's important to know your own limitations and to keep a watchful eye on your items' durability and your health. Abigail will help, but *don't let her presence make you feel indestructible*. Be prepared and have a plan for any engagement; Abigail *can* fail you, and you are much weaker by yourself, particularly if you get blindsided or something breaks unexpectedly. Be conscious in combat with Wendy: surprises and being careless are your worst enemies, and can potentially lead to [death](/wiki/Death "Death").

As long as things stay on your terms and you exercise caution, Wendy will carry you well into day 100 and beyond.

|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Game Guides** [view](/wiki/Template:Guide "Template:Guide") | |
| **Basic** | [Getting Started](/wiki/Guides/Getting_Started_Guide "Guides/Getting Started Guide")  •  [The Big Picture](/wiki/Guides/The_Big_Picture "Guides/The Big Picture")  •  [All About Night](/wiki/Guides/All_About_Night "Guides/All About Night") [Blitzkrieging with Don't Starve's world](/wiki/Guides/Blitzkrieging_with_Don%27t_Starve%27s_world "Guides/Blitzkrieging with Don't Starve's world")  •  [Golden Rules of Don't Starve](/wiki/Guides/Golden_Rules_of_Don%27t_Starve "Guides/Golden Rules of Don't Starve")  •  [Marking and Revisiting Areas](/wiki/Guides/Marking_and_Revisiting_Areas "Guides/Marking and Revisiting Areas")  •  [Starting Out: A Guide For Newbies](/wiki/Guides/Starting_Out:_A_Guide_For_Newbies "Guides/Starting Out: A Guide For Newbies")  •  [Taming a Beefalo](/wiki/Guides/Taming_a_Beefalo "Guides/Taming a Beefalo")  •  [Thulecite](/wiki/Guides/Thulecite "Guides/Thulecite") |
| **DLC** | [Don't Starve in Reign of Giants](/wiki/Guides/Don%27t_Starve_in_Reign_of_Giants "Guides/Don't Starve in Reign of Giants")  •  [The Ultimate Reign of Giants Starting Guide](/wiki/Guides/The_Ultimate_Reign_Of_Giants_Starting_Guide "Guides/The Ultimate Reign Of Giants Starting Guide")  •  [Summer Guide](/wiki/Guides/Summer_Guide "Guides/Summer Guide")  •  [Surviving Winter](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_Winter "Guides/Surviving Winter")  •  [Survive A Year In Reign Of Giants](/wiki/Guides/Survive_A_Year_In_Reign_Of_Giants "Guides/Survive A Year In Reign Of Giants")  •  [Surviving Shipwrecked](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_Shipwrecked "Guides/Surviving Shipwrecked")  •  [Surviving the hurricane and monsoon seasons in Shipwrecked](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_a_year_in_Shipwrecked "Guides/Surviving a year in Shipwrecked")  •  [Making Aquatic Bases in Shipwrecked](/wiki/Guides/Making_Aquatic_Bases_in_Shipwrecked "Guides/Making Aquatic Bases in Shipwrecked")  •  [Using the Seaworthy](/wiki/Guides/From_SW_to_RoG_via_the_Seaworthy! "Guides/From SW to RoG via the Seaworthy!")  •  [Guide to Survive in Volcano](/wiki/Guides/Guide_to_Survive_in_Volcano "Guides/Guide to Survive in Volcano")  •  [Getting Started in Hamlet](/wiki/Guides/Getting_Started_in_Hamlet "Guides/Getting Started in Hamlet")  •  [Exploring the Ruins in Hamlet](/wiki/Guides/Exploring_the_Ruins_in_Hamlet "Guides/Exploring the Ruins in Hamlet")  •  [Ham Temperate Season](/wiki/Guides/Ham_Temperate_Season "Guides/Ham Temperate Season")  •  [Hamlet Economy](/wiki/Guides/Hamlet_Economy "Guides/Hamlet Economy")  •  [Hamlet Survival Guide](/wiki/Guides/Hamlet_Survival_Guide "Guides/Hamlet Survival Guide")  •  [Making you own Hamlet](/wiki/Guides/Making_you_own_Hamlet "Guides/Making you own Hamlet") |
| **Camping** | [Base Camp](/wiki/Guides/Base_Camp_Guide "Guides/Base Camp Guide")  •  [Frog Pond Camp](/wiki/Guides/Frog_Pond_Camp_Guide "Guides/Frog Pond Camp Guide")  •  [Self-sustaining Settlement](/wiki/Guides/Self-sustaining_Settlement_Guide "Guides/Self-sustaining Settlement Guide")  •  [Marsh Camp](/wiki/Guides/Marsh_Camp_Guide "Guides/Marsh Camp Guide")  •  [Camping Underground](/wiki/Guides/Camping_Underground "Guides/Camping Underground")  •  [Summer Cave Base](/wiki/Guides/Summer_Cave_Base "Guides/Summer Cave Base")  •  [Organizing your time in space](/wiki/Guides/Organizing_your_time_in_space "Guides/Organizing your time in space")  •  [Protected Fortress](/wiki/Guides/Protected_Fortress "Guides/Protected Fortress")  •  [The Best Biomes for Camp](/wiki/Guides/The_Best_Biomes_for_Camp "Guides/The Best Biomes for Camp") |
| **Farming** | [Gold Nugget Farm](/wiki/Guides/Gold_Nugget_Farm_Guide "Guides/Gold Nugget Farm Guide")  •  [Renewable Farming](/wiki/Guides/Renewable_Farming "Guides/Renewable Farming")  •  [Farming](/wiki/Guides/Farming "Guides/Farming")  •  [Nightmare Fuel Farming](/wiki/Guides/Nightmare_Fuel_Farming "Guides/Nightmare Fuel Farming")  •  [Slurtle Slime](/wiki/Guides/Slurtle_Slime_Guide "Guides/Slurtle Slime Guide")  •  [Krampii](/wiki/Guides/Managing_Naughtiness "Guides/Managing Naughtiness")  •  [Fire Farm](/wiki/Guides/Fire_Farm "Guides/Fire Farm")  •  [Pig Farming](/wiki/Guides/Pig_Farming "Guides/Pig Farming")  •  [Berries and Turkey Farm](/wiki/Guides/Incredible_Inedible "Guides/Incredible Inedible")  •  [MeatFarm](/wiki/Guides/MeatFarm "Guides/MeatFarm") |
| **Survival** | [Adventure Mode](/wiki/Guides/Adventure_Guide "Guides/Adventure Guide")  •  [Mob Killing](/wiki/Guides/Mob_Killing_Guide "Guides/Mob Killing Guide")  •  [How To not starve](/wiki/Guides/How_to_not_starve "Guides/How to not starve")  •  [How to survive](/wiki/Guides/How_to_Survive "Guides/How to Survive")  •  [Hound Wave Survival](/wiki/Guides/Hound_Wave_Survival_Guide "Guides/Hound Wave Survival Guide")  •  [Mushroom Guide](/wiki/Guides/Mushroom_Guide "Guides/Mushroom Guide")  •  [Boss Drops](/wiki/Guides/What_To_Do_With_Boss_Drops "Guides/What To Do With Boss Drops")  •  [Spelunking Guide](/wiki/Guides/Spelunking_Guide "Guides/Spelunking Guide")  •  [Winter Guide](/wiki/Guides/Winter_Guide "Guides/Winter Guide")  •  [Crock Pot Dishes](/wiki/Guides/Crock_Pot_Dishes "Guides/Crock Pot Dishes")  •  [Panic Room Guide](/wiki/Guides/Panic_Room "Guides/Panic Room")  •  [Just Spawned](/wiki/Guides/You_Have_Just_Spawned,_Now_What%3F%3F "Guides/You Have Just Spawned, Now What??")  •  [Advanced World](/wiki/Guides/Advanced_World "Guides/Advanced World")  •  [World vs Caves](/wiki/Guides/World_vs_Caves "Guides/World vs Caves")  •  [Preparing for Deerclops](/wiki/Guides/Preparing_for_Deerclops "Guides/Preparing for Deerclops")  •  [Advanced Hound Protection](/wiki/Guides/Advanced_Hound_Protection "Guides/Advanced Hound Protection")  •  [Combatting Bosses](/wiki/Guides/Combatting_Bosses "Guides/Combatting Bosses")  •  [Killing Dragonfly DST](/wiki/Guides/Killing_Dragonfly_DST "Guides/Killing Dragonfly DST")  •  [Making your Overworld a better place.](/wiki/Guides/Making_your_Overworld_a_better_place. "Guides/Making your Overworld a better place.")  •  [Maximum Efficiency Day 13 Base DST Guide](/wiki/Guides/Maximum_Efficiency_Day_13_Base_DST_Guide "Guides/Maximum Efficiency Day 13 Base DST Guide")  •  [Picking your armor](/wiki/Guides/Picking_your_armor "Guides/Picking your armor")  •  [Surviving the winter in DST](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_the_winter_in_DST "Guides/Surviving the winter in DST")  •  [The Forge](/wiki/Guides/The_Forge "Guides/The Forge")  •  [Making Bigger and Better Weapons](/wiki/Guides/Making_Bigger_and_Better_Weapons "Guides/Making Bigger and Better Weapons")  (*[Surviving in a New Server](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_in_a_New_Server "Guides/Surviving in a New Server"))* |
| **Technical** | [Physical Damage Absorption](/wiki/Guides/Physical_Damage_Absorption "Guides/Physical Damage Absorption")  •  [Console Commands](/wiki/Guides/Console "Guides/Console")  (*[Automatically Start Dedicated Server (Linux)](/wiki/Guides/Automatically_Start_Dedicated_Server_(Linux) "Guides/Automatically Start Dedicated Server (Linux)")  •  [Simple Dedicated Server Setup](/wiki/Guides/Simple_Dedicated_Server_Setup "Guides/Simple Dedicated Server Setup")  •  [Don’t Starve Together Dedicated Servers](/wiki/Guides/Don%E2%80%99t_Starve_Together_Dedicated_Servers "Guides/Don’t Starve Together Dedicated Servers")* Don't Starve Together) |
| **Characters** | [Surviving 101 With Wilson P. Higgsbury (And Other People)](/wiki/Guides/Surviving_101_With_Wilson_P._Higgsbury_(And_Other_People) "Guides/Surviving 101 With Wilson P. Higgsbury (And Other People)")  •  [Willow](/wiki/Guides/Character_guide-Willow "Guides/Character guide-Willow")  •  [Wolfgang](/wiki/Guides/Character_guide_-_Wolfgang,_The_Strongman "Guides/Character guide - Wolfgang, The Strongman")  •  **Wendy**  •  [WX-78 survival](/wiki/Guides/WX-78_survival "Guides/WX-78 survival")  •  [Wickerbottom](/wiki/Guides/Wickerbottom "Guides/Wickerbottom")  •  [Wickerbottom's Books](/wiki/Guides/Character_guide_-_Wickerbottom%27s_Books "Guides/Character guide - Wickerbottom's Books")  •  [Woodie's Curse](/wiki/Guides/Woodie%27s_Curse "Guides/Woodie's Curse")  •  [Wigfrid](/wiki/User_blog:Cmshaw/Adventure_Mode_with_Wigfrid_Guide "User blog:Cmshaw/Adventure Mode with Wigfrid Guide")  •  [Maxwell](/wiki/Guides/Character_Guide_-_Maxwell "Guides/Character Guide - Maxwell")  •  [Guide to Don't Starve Lore](/wiki/Guides/Guide_to_Don%27t_Starve_Lore "Guides/Guide to Don't Starve Lore") |